# RepoTemplate_LuSt

Template for a repository structure.

To clone this repo (including its submodules) you can use the following command:
```bash
git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/TheRedElement/RepoTemplate_LuSt.git
```
If you don't need the submodules just omit `--recurse-submodules`

> [!IMPORTANT]  
> If you find this repository useful, please add the following acknowledgement in your work:
> I/We acknowledge the work that went into curating a github-repository template to start working immediately.
> The original we used can be found on [https://github.com/TheRedElement/RepoTemplate_LuSt/tree/main](https://github.com/TheRedElement/RepoTemplate_LuSt/tree/main).

# Conventions

* anything prefixed with `temp` will not be synced to GitHub

# Parts

## [.github](.github/)

Special directory used by GitHub to automate workflows.

## [data/](./data)

Store your datasets here.
See [README.md](./data/README.md) for more information.

## [exploration/](./exploration/)

* scripts for exploration, experimentation, and prototyping
* one directory for each language

```bash
-- exploration/
    |-- python/
    `-- julia/
```
<!-- -->
example structure of [scripts](./scripts/).

## [outputs/](./outputs/)

* outputs generated by the project

### [logs/](./logs/)

This is a space for any output of scripts that shall be stored for later inspection.
Examples would be slurm script outputs and errors.

### [gfx/](./gfx/)

All figures generated in your work go here.
These can be referenced in [summary.md](./summary.md).

> [!NOTE]
> it is recommended to create a `temp_gfx` directory inside of [gfx](./gfx/).
> this directory will not be backed up to GitHub so only the actually relevant figures will be synced.

### [models/](./models/)

* trained and serialized models
* model summaries
* model weights

## [scripts/](./scripts/)

* main scripts of the project
* one directory for each language

```bash
-- scripts/
    |-- bash/
    |-- julia/
    `-- python/
```
<!-- -->
example structure of [scripts](./scripts/).

### [bash](./bash)

A directory for bash-scripts.
A slurm-script template is provided.

## [src/](./src/)

* production code
* each language gets its own directory
* each language manages its own requirements and environments

```shell
-- src/
    |-- bash/
    |-- julia/
    |   |-- Julia.jl
    |   |-- Module1.jl
    |   |-- Module2.jl
    |   :
    |
    |-- python/
    |   |-- __init__.py
    |   |-- module1.py
    |   |-- module2.py
    |   :
    |
    `-- shared/
```
<!-- -->
example structure for [src](./src/)

> [!NOTE]
> the modules are called `python` and `julia` so it is general across projects.
> you can then easily convert them to a stand-alone project by renaming the necessary files and directories and updating the `.toml` files.

## [submodules/](./submodules/)

Any submodules used in the project.
Common things would be forks of repositories.


## [tests/](./tests/)

directory containing unit tests.

## [.gitignore](./.gitignore)

A template `.gitignore` file containing ignores for
* `python`
* `julia`
* $\LaTeX$

## [.gitmodules](./.gitmodules)

Pointer to git modules included in the repo.

## [CITATION.cff](./CITATION.cff)

Template for a bibliography entry.

## [LICENSE](./LICENSE)

Template for a MIT Licence.

## [README.md](./README.md)

readme of the project.

## [bib-refs.bib](./bib-refs.bib)

Contains all the literature you are referencing in [summary.md](./summary.md)


## [config.json](./config.json)

*single file containing configurations for the local environment/machine.
* example contents:
    * **absolute** paths relevant in the project.
        * to not leak any local paths (from i.e., supercomputers) when uploading code to [GitHub](https://github.com).

```json
{
    "projectdir":"<path/to/project>"
}
```
<!-- -->
example content of [config.json](./config.json).

### Bash Scripts
* source the file at the beginning of your script
```bash
#get configs
SCRIPT_DIR=$(dirname -- "$(realpath -- "$0")")
PROJECTPATH=$(jq -r '.projectpath' "${SCRIPT_DIR}/<relative/path/to/config.json>")
```

### Python
* have a look at [main.py](./scripts/python/main.py) for an example
* a utility function is included in [package](./src/python/package/__init__.py)
    * this function will load the local configs 

```python
#get absolute path to current file
DIR_PATH:str = os.path.dirname(os.path.realpath(__file__)) + "/"
sys.path.append(DIR_PATH)

#load project packages
from python import load_config

#get project paths
CONFIG:dict = load_config(f"{DIR_PATH}../../config.json")
```

### Julia
* have a look at [main.jl](./scripts/julia/main.jl) for an example
* a utility function is included in [Package](./src/julia/Package.jl)
    * this function will load the local configs 

```julia
#load project packages
include(joinpath(@__DIR__,"../../src/julia/Julia.jl"))
using .Julia: Julia as julia
const PROJ_PATHS::Dict{String,Any} = julia.get_config(joinpath(@__DIR__,"../../config.json"))
```

## [pandoc-header.html](./pandoc-header.html)

HTML header for [pandoc](https://pandoc.org/) to produce nice html outputs of [summary.md](./summary.md)
html can be generated by calling the following (pandoc <= v2.x)

```bash
pandoc summary.md -o summary.html --standalone --mathjax --css https://pandoc.org/demo/pandoc.css --self-contained -H pandoc-header.html --toc --toc-depth=2
```

## [pyproject.toml](./pyproject.toml)

Template for a pyproject file.


## [summary.md](./summary.md)

summary file for your latest results.
essentially serves as a living paper draft.
embed images from [gfx](./gfx/) to always have the latest plots ready.

# Some Useful Things

## Creating Environments in Python
If you are working with [Python](https://www.python.org/), a standard way to make sure your project is reproducible is to create a virtual environment for the project.
To do so navigate to project root directory and call the following:
```bash
python3 -m venv venv
```
This will create a virtual environement called `venv` in your directory.
The [.gitignore](./.gitignore) file will ignore the environment for git.

To activate your environment use the following from your project root directory:
```bash
source venv/bin/activate
```

Now you can also install packages using [pip](https://pypi.org/project/pip/):
```bash
pip3 install <packagename>
```

To provide yourself (and others) with an easy way of reproducing your environment simpy `freeze` the environment:
```bash
pip3 freeze > requirements.txt
```
This creates a new file [requirements.txt](./requirements.txt), which contains all your installed packages including versions.
To install all packages from a [requirements.txt](./requirements.txt) file just call the following within your activated environemnt:
```bash
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```
